K. So now we have the front and the back of the bag. So once again, you turn the two wrong sides together because all the crochet is done on the outside. So the two reverse sides, put them together. And it doesn't matter which corner you start off with, but we're gonna start off with the corner. So as before, very same as we did when we're putting all the squares together. This is just putting another square together. And start in the corner, wrap the wool around, bring the tail end over, that's just to secure it, and bring those two through and then another chain so that represents a double crochet. And it's the very same as before into the first treble. Make sure you get the treble at the back. Bring this tail in again so that you don't have to be sewing it up at the end. The second treble and the second treble on the last line. Wrap the one around. Bring it through. And then the third one. And the third one. Wrap the one around and keep those tail ends in. That way into the space. Into the space. I'm just gonna switch hands into the top treble.
Wrap the one around. And just like before, you're going into the space and into the top of the treble. Just making sure you keep the two lined up. And when you come across those tail end pieces, just wrap them in as well so that just saves having to sew them in later. So now I'm on the third, third treble, second, and the first treble and that brings me to the corner. So I'm going to go into the corner on both sides front and back And then just switch over into the corner on the next one front and back. And now you do the very same thing, lining up the trebles, front and back Into space. Travel front and back. Into space. Travel front and back. That's three. One, two. Now this is interesting. On the last three, I made an error and I didn't create a third travel. But that's okay. I wouldn't it's not gonna be
Noticed. So I'm just going to go back into the same space and go into the last treble. And this is the thing about making errors. It really doesn't matter. And you learn by the I call them learning curves. And now we're into the corner. So we're into the corner on both sides. We do three to turn the corner. Remember, three doubles turns the corner. And I'm glad I made that mistake just to show you that it doesn't matter and nobody's going to notice. So now with one side of the bag done, I'm going to go and finish the end of the bag, turn the corner, and I'm not sure. Just let me do it, but I'll do it as we go along. Okay. But this adds an additional feature to the bag and this bag can be used for whatever you want it to be used for. This also makes us very As I said, when you come across here now, I've made another mistake. I've got two troubles in a space. These are my last three. So I am at the back. I'm up to my last three. So I'm gonna take this one, and I'm going to go into the space.
And now I'm on the space so I'll just do another one in the space and into the top. This is the last of the three trebles and now I'm back just doing the three trebles. And that's one, two, and three. So when you do come across an error that's okay. You can see no one's going to see there's an error there and it's okay on the back as well. So again, I'm glad I came across that error so we can show you. And into the corner into the corner and you can see I'm bringing along those tail pieces tail end pieces. Now go into the next corner and into the next corner and bring along those tail end pieces. And now we're into the first treble, second treble, And third treble. And now I'm into a space, into a space, keeping those tail ends tucked in into the treble, into the treble at the back, pull down the tail ends, into the space, into the treble, treble
Pull at the back into the space. And then just those two tail ends, I'm just pulling them tight, and now we're on the last three here. This is keeping the tail ends down. One, two, and three. So now I'm back to the corner. So I've one side done, the end done, three doubles to turn the corner. Okay. And I'll come back when I get to the top and show you what's next.