Welcome to the world of Bare Knuckle Fighting Championship, the oldest and the newest combat sport. Bare knuckle fighting had its last champion in 1889, ending the sport's chaotic beginning without weight divisions or round limits and no referees. Over a century later, bare knuckle boxing returned with a modern spin. Today, Bare Knuckle Fighting Championship is regulated by athletic commissions and has become a highly technical and specialized form of combat sport that has drawn top athletes from all disciplines of martial arts. Fighting Championship presents BKFC Knockout Fight Series. For Marcus Suarez versus Mark Williams, we're looking at a height advantage, we're looking at a weight advantage, we're looking at a reach advantage. Let's see if Marcus Suarez can use those advantages in this fight. Juggernaut assessment of him, he looks like he trained hard, he's got that little crazy look in his eye. Let's see if he can utilize it and make it into actual fight. He's a little flat-footed, and I hate to see that when fighters come out. Let's see what he can do. Williamson said, I'm going to bob and weave to get to the inside. I want to be in the clinch over the pocket, and when I'm in the clinch, I'm going to throw big uppercuts. Big uppercuts aren't always easy to throw when you're in the clinch. Sometimes it's the little punches that set things up for you. I am a master at little punches as well as big punches, and when you're in that clinch, you need to be aware of which one you need. Suarez has weighed as much as 355 pounds. And to put that in full perspective, he weighed in at 184. Suarez said, I want to establish my reach advantage quickly. Suarez, 6'1", Williamson is 5'8". Suarez said, I want to continually be first and continually throw forward stiff jabs from range. He's coming out strong, hard. He's already attempting to intimidate this guy by giving him the the mean prison stare. Like I said, not sure about this choice in music, but when he gets in here, let's see what he can do. Suarez said, I want to avoid a grip. I believe that my opponent Marcus Williamson has wild striking. I think he's an unpredictable striker, Suarez said. I cannot allow Williamson to control this fight in the pocket. I think we'll be able to tell right in the first 30 seconds of this fight too, whoever comes off the line swinging and banging is probably going to establish the dominance first and wind up winning this bout. Ladies and gentlemen, we are set for the next fight of the night, scheduled for 5 2-minute rounds in the light heavyweight division, presented to you by Resha. Upgrade to champion mindset with Resha. Introducing you first, fighting out of the red corner, tonight he wears black. He stands 5 feet 8 inches tall. His official weight, an even 177 pounds. Tonight he makes his BKFC debut, fighting out of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Marcus Across the ring, his opponent, fighting out of the blue corner. Tonight he wears black and gold. He stands 6 feet 1 inch tall. His official weight, 184.8 lbs. Tonight he steps into the squared circle for the second time, fighting And now, in charge of the action, Sam Marcus. Marcus Williamson told us, throughout my combat sports career, I've been historically a slow starter. I cannot be in this bout. There's a reason we start 36 inches apart. There's a reason the ring is small. It's because we want to see a fight. With his grave danger victory celebration, Marcus Flores was— A situation like this, you can go double unders and wrap your arms around the back, or you can go over the top of the head with one arm and put your hands in the back with the other, and the referee will have to stop it. His first victory at BKFC. It was really a point of inspiration. Again, he was completely out of sports, weighing 355 pounds, committed himself to fighting, being a professional fighter, coming to BKFC, getting in shape, and again, from 355 to 184.8 for this fight. Showing his class in victory. BKFC is such a new sport that there are a lot of rules in the fighting that people just have not gotten used to. Coming over from different combat sports organizations and being reliant on the referee to get in there and save you, we call it dirty boxing for a reason. You can clinch, you can wrap the guy up, and you can hit and hold. And until you figure out, you guys need to practice that. When you're at home. We go to Jeff Houston. Ladies and gentlemen, our referee in charge, Sam Burgos, reaches the count of 10. And 28 seconds into round number 1, for your winner by KO, Marcus Marcus Williamson told us he's historically a slow starter. He felt he couldn't in this fight, but Marcus Suarez completely exploding off of scratch. It wasn't the slow start of Williamson, it was the rapid-fire start and indeed the rapid-fire finish of Marcus Suarez. First round KO in 28 seconds. Jorge Suarez defeats Martin Bluntson. Brandon Myers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now set for our feature fight scheduled for 5 rounds in the welterweight division, presented to you by Forged Irish Stout. Not here to take part, here to take over. Introducing to you first Fighting out of the red corner tonight, he wears red and white trimmed in the proud colors of the United States of America. He stands 5 feet 9 inches tall. His official weight, 164.2 pounds. His BKFC record stands at 1 victory opposite a single defeat. Fighting out of Omaha, Nebraska, he is Brandon And across the ring, his opponent fighting out of the blue corner. Tonight he wears pink. He stands 5 feet 9 inches tall. His official weight, 164.4 pounds. His bare knuckle fighting record stands at 4 victories opposite 3 defeats. Fighting out of the thr— oh, fuck! My— and our referee in charge of the action, Andrew Glenn. Brandon Myers said, I'm ready for a fast start from Fames, but I'm not that concerned with his punching power. What? Any trucks for fans? Any trucks for Brandon Meyer? Banks comes out really relaxed. I like to see guys shooting for the body first. Meyer throwing big punches early. All right, continuing to throw down to the body goes Brandon Meyer. Some shots as a fast pace. Nobody is always doing anything just yet. Over here, this is the fans. Tsunari's step, extending his lead leg, taking it from the south of the— from the orthodox position. 60 seconds remain, round number 1. This is our feature fight, 165 pounds. I think that was a good break. Somebody needs to establish some patience and make a good move or two before they just keep swinging and somebody gets clipped with something you didn't see coming. Keep that movement again from Marga. He told us that was one of his keys to victory. Chin, dazed him a little bit. Come again, same jab. That was also the same jab that we saw yesterday at weigh-ins when Fame slapped him and got jabbed right on the chin. Brandon Meyer's son, Dion Meyer, is in his dad's corner for the first time. Pressure is on Fames now to make it a fight. We'll see if Myers takes a back leg and give him a chance. Right, couldn't get through off of the jabs. Looked like a little twist of the ankle. Trying to come forward soft, sensing the pressure from the southpaw stance. Fans is being kind of patient, reaching to him. We got pretty good head strikes. Fans team, minus 21 in the first round. These guys are throwing. I'm pulling on the line and I'm barely getting 3 fully from Famous. To the jab goes Miles. First punch. I like the way Miles is using his jab, but the straight is a little short hook. He seems to have noticed something weak about Famous' left side defense. See the inside hand fighting for both of them. To the jab again, right hand long. 55 seconds remaining in round 2. That jab is going to continue to be trouble, and if Famous keeps changing stances, he opens himself up to a clean right hand. Short lesson.
Same circle. The Southpaw goes feints. See Brandon Minor in the orthodox stance. You can't stay in the mid-range like this. You cannot stay in this fight, my man. You're either in or you're out. Things need to go in and get some or get out of there because this guy is throwing and he's not trying to make this an easy night for things. Right hand. Fighter's kicks. You need to switch stances. Yeah, they both calmed down a little bit after the wild first round. They're both respecting each other's power. Maybe Miles got clipped a little bit. We know fans did, and that's why everybody's being cautious right now. They're trying to make it out the second round. Maybe we'll see some more action in the third. Final seconds, round number 2. Can you see the inside hand fighting? His left hand seems to be doing the most damage. He's landing clean, clean left hooks, and he's just caught him with his right hand. Step back, step back, step back! Great work by Frank! True, they're telling them keep doing what you're doing, as they should be. You should be keeping the space, making sure that Fangs doesn't get anything lucky off, and landing clean counter shots when he tries. Look like he caught a straight right hand right in the forehead. But his foot stances to try to hide it. From the southpaw stances, both fighters continue to switch stances in this fight. 70 seconds remaining on 4. Justin Fields is way too calm in the pocket right here. Amari just throwing a flurry of small punches, some big, some small. It is surreal how calm Famsi is standing there in the pocket, even taking damage, standing there, standing there, his opponent in front of him. Was— if he does not come up with something right now, at least a gun, to keep himself and his life, The judges are consistently excellent with BKFC here in Florida. Brandon Myers is going to carry on him. Yeah, not only that, I mean, when you know the sport as well as I do, you know what to look for in a fight, and it doesn't take a genius to tell who won a fight. You just look at their face. Believe he's planning to win this fight with the knockout. He's gonna have to. Phim's almost stationary in the center circle. Take it down to the body. Maybe he'll get him to bring his hands down a little bit before he comes up top. But as of right now, slide in from Fang. He landed a good one before he left. Right on the nose. He's desperate for error. Fang is desperate for error. Take that opportunity and go ahead and finish this fight strong. But that's why I didn't kick. One knockdown in this fight. It was in round number 1 when Bryan knocked down Fang Tsai. Overwhelmed him with a couple of body shots and, uh, pressed him with the half Thai Plum and got one knockdown, which I'm pretty sure secured him the victory in this fight. Strike stats. Energy Bryan. Head strikes with the same double head strike, 75 legs from Meyer, 175 attempts. He was all over the place. He earned this fight and he got it. Ladies and gentlemen, after completing the scheduled 5 rounds, here are the score totals from our judges at ringside. 49-45, 48-46, and 48-45 to the winner by unanimous decision, Brandon Smith. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now set for the Scheduled for 5 rounds in the women's division, presented to you by OnlyFans. Introducing to you first, fighting out of the red corner, tonight she wears gray and red. She stands 5 feet 6 inches tall, her official weight 126 pounds. She is undefeated in the squared circle at 1-0. Fighting out of— and across the ring, her opponent fighting out of the blue corner. Tonight she wears black. She stands 5 feet 3 inches tall. Her official weight, 124.8 pounds. She holds an undefeated pro boxing record at 13-0 and an undefeated BKFC record at 1-0. Fighting out of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, the champion, Roseanne Van Roos. And our referee in charge of the action, Sam Burgess. Rosa Rodriguez told us, I believe that there will be openings off of Monica Franco's forward pressure. I have to capitalize on them. I love to see a fighter with excited hands. She's coming out Swinging all around, she's getting ready to continue her attack. Monica reports is down to 30% but it doesn't look like it's working. Ready into the clinch, right border of the referee's center line. Good job, good job Monica, making it a dance battle. She knows what she's got to do, even taking a little bit of damage to do it, but this is exactly what she has to do. To win. Separation from Rosa. You can tell Rosa is totally unfamiliar with these half-tie clutches and these underhooks. And, uh, and if she lands again, she'll be able to close that off. Short punch from Rodriguez, trying to be heavy in the clinch. Stance, Monica Franco. I'm already seeing some swelling over the top of Monica Franco's— she just caught another left hand.
Rigas is back against the ropes. Rigas is making the proper adjustments for this, uh, pressing, aggressive style of Monica Franco. She's catching her when she can and moving her when she can. Farko continuing to swing, then trying to lock in from Rodriguez. The Hulk is actually snatching the overhook, but doing so defensively. Now double unders from Farko makes the separation. Swelling under Franco's left eye. Went up the left hand, Monica Franco. It's high and tight. Those are rich scallops from Rodriguez. Great left hand from Rodriguez. Don't shoot really anything on Rodriguez. I think we're starting to see a little bit of exhaustion right here. Monica throws out. We start to see Rosalyn start to land some cleaner punches. Rodriguez looking for the transition Wench! Fuck off, wench! Fucking wench and traitor! She keeps taking more time. Well done, well done, you guys. She's so good at sneaking that 1-2 in there. It's literally working every time. Regis has been on point with her straight punches. Oh, she's moving away in round 2, and here we start round number 3. You can see Monica's legs starting to get a little bit wobbly. She's getting a little unsure of herself. She's changing stances. She's throwing wild And I think, uh, Rodriguez is having fun now. Vargas is still throwing big, big hits from Monica Franco. See the spinning blow land to her left? That's the cut on the inside of the right eye. Great job, Monica Franco. Great big heart of her to stay in there taking this kind of damage. Her lungs have to be on fire. Knows that she is still— but she's still fighting, so she still has a chance. Okay, still throwing. Can you see the straight punches from the middle? Like I said, it's always there in boxing. And what we doing there, nothing— nothing how to close that hole in your defense is not something you can learn on the fly. Usually if I catch you with a left hook once, I'm going to catch you with it again and again. Because you can't figure it out in one day. Forward through the center circles, walking that left hook of Franco. Rosa Rodriguez, Rodriguez on a right and left hook. 20 seconds remaining, round 3 of our co-main. That's a lot of blood coming out of that eye here. It's a lot of hope for Monica. Rodriguez is landing everything. It's not just the straight punches getting through from Rodriguez, it's the blocking of the hooks and uppercuts from Razor Rodriguez. And give it to him, Steve. We move to our next field. Ladies and gentlemen, on the advice of our ringside physician, our referee in charge Sam Burgos steps in and calls a stop to this fight at the conclusion of round number 3. For your winner by TKO and still undefeated, Strong start to this fight for Monica Franco, doing excellent work in the clinch, but then Rosa Rodriguez found her range and continued to land hard, clean punches. By way of third round TKO, the physician stopped it. Rosa Rodriguez defeated Monica Franco. Spurs and Sean Wilson. A little bit of a height advantage, a reach advantage for Howard Davis, and he's gonna need it. He's gonna have to do some amazing stuff to keep this guy off him. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now set for The division presented to you by Bucked Up Energy Drink. Get bucked up! Sanctioned by the Florida State Boxing Commission. Assistant Executive Director Timothy Shipman. The 3 judges scoring our main event: John Rupert, Lorenzo Toledo, Eliseo Rodriguez, and the third man inside the squared circle, our referee in charge of the action at the bell, Andrew Glenn. And now, with our bare knuckle fans watching live on the BCCN Folk TV from the soul Coming out of the red corner, tonight he wears black. He stands 5 feet 8 inches tall. His official weight, 155.8 pounds. His BKFC record stands at 3 victories opposite a single defeat. Fighting out of Papillion, Nebraska, it's Sean Whoops! And across the ring, his opponent fighting out of the blue corner. Tonight he wears crimson and black. He stands 6 feet 2 inches tall. His official weight, an even 154 pounds. His record stands at 6 victories, opposite 2 defeats, with 1 fight even. Here's the former number one featherweight title challenger, Fabio— Right now he's preferring range, that is long range, and Sean's stopping because when he comes, he's coming and he's going to stay in there. So look for a couple of moments of hesitation and then a big blast to the inside and big punches coming. See the level change from Sean Wilson looking for his— there off the left hand. That's right. There's no secrets in this fight. Everyone knows Davis has to stay on the outside and be the clean, crisp fighter he can be. And everybody knows that Shawn's not sticking on the inside to land big punches. You saw the deep punches came out here from Shawn yesterday. Nice jab. No better jab. No better way to establish the distance, dominance on the distance, than to land a crispy, clean jab. He's already cut above his belt. The fight seems in quickly. He's in. Ch Wilson, that is a nasty cut above his He's gonna have to cut the guy, drop the guy, or something. First step to scratch the start right, number 2, Sean Wilson. Now up is Chandler Davis. Oh, no good from the freehand right hand. Round number 2 underway. Spoken. Spoken off the left hand shot, Wilson. Jumping open hand parry from Wilson. I said I'm giving Champ in round number 1. That's right. This is the time where you get to see what you're really made of. You already hurt. The first game plan is out the window. Now it's time to establish yourself in this ring. The jumping technique from Wilson. I love to see more fighters double, double the punch because it's often that you can get out the way of the first one, but the second one usually lands. Nice overhand right, and for most people that's right above the eye, would have changed the dynamic of the fight. And he may have lost his fight, he got his justice.
Body, body, body. Just a, just a finish by a punch of fruition. He just gave it up. He was still rocked from the first time, but he didn't want to fight no more. He did not want to fight no more. All set up by that amazing knockout. Uh, anytime a fighter has the job of creating the entry, he runs the risk of getting knocked out. Quality win for Howard Davis against a high-quality opponent in Sean Wilson. Again, for Wilson, an excellent run for one who— this is his 100th professional combat sports contest. Davis though, turning the tempo of this fight in round number 2, knocking down Sean Wilson twice to the finish. That was a devastating uppercut, well placed, well timed. Patience. Practice makes perfect. Ladies and gentlemen, our referee in charge, Andrew Glenn, steps in and calls a stop to this fight at 1 minute 34 seconds into round number 2. For your winner by TKO, So, my friend, when you look up and down your record, that's all you do is finish fights. You did it again right here in Miami. How you feeling about that one? First of all, I want to give all these blessings that I have today to my Lord and my Savior God. If it wasn't for him, I wouldn't be here. I'm not standing here, I'm putting on everything. I thank God first, everything, and then David Feldman, my manager, Vitor Belfort, Nelson, everybody that's behind me, my coach, all my friends, all my supporters here tonight. Thank you guys. Now listen, we know you've been a player in the featherweight division, you fought for that title, you're in the lightweight division. When you look forward and you look at that next fight, you got somebody in your crosshairs right now who you want to go after? His name James Brown. I'm gonna put that I keep my son— wait till he get in this ring in Miami, too, whenever we find him. I'm playing. Ladies and gentlemen, make some noise for Howard 'HD' Davis! He ran into a big shot early, but I always like to see when fighters can come back from adversity. He went right back to the can-can. Firing from long range and establishing and making it hard for him to get inside. He made a mistake when he came in with his head down, caught a nice uppercut, and the rest is game, set, match. A very good round number 1 for Sean Wilson and an outstanding round number 2 for Howard Davis. 2 knockdowns of Sean Wilson in the second round to the finish. And our main event of the evening, the winner by way of second round TKO, Howard Davis defeats Sean Wilson.