It is the best-selling book in history. No volume ever written has been more loved and quoted, and its words, sometimes simple and sometimes mysterious, should always be studied carefully. It is the Bible, the Word of God. Welcome to Bible Answers Live, providing accurate and practical answers to all your Bible questions. This broadcast is a previously recorded episode. To receive any of the Bible resources mentioned in this broadcast, call 800-835-6747. Once again, that's 800-835-6747. Now here's your host from Amazing Facts International, Pastor Doug Batchelor. Hello friends, would you like to hear an amazing fact? The holy grail of global energy is the heat beneath our feet: geothermal energy. All over the planet, between 5 and 20 miles below our feet, there is molten rock, well over 1,000 degrees. That heat can produce enough steam-generated electricity to power the planet. The problem has been the drilling technology to get down there. The deepest hole ever bored into the Earth was the Kola Superdeep Borehole in Russia. In 1992, it reached over 40,000 feet, that's 7.5 miles, before it had to stop because the heat was melting the drill bits. Now there's a company with new technology that does not rely on traditional drilling methods. Quaise Energy, working with MIT, has developed new drill bits with millimeter wave energy that are designed to melt and vaporize rock to create deeper holes to reach and harness the heat in the Earth's core. Quaise Energy says there's enough energy in the Earth's magma to power every city on Earth for thousands of years. Clearly, Pastor Ross, it's a question of going deeper. That's right. The deeper you go, the more energy you get. Get the power. I think there's a spiritual application there, Pastor Doug. If we want to have the power of the Holy Spirit, we need to seek for a deeper experience in the things of God, a deeper understanding of his word, a deeper commitment of our lives to him, there is power in the Spirit. That's right. Makes me think of the passage where Jesus says in Luke 6:48, "A wise man is like a man building a house who dug deep and he laid the foundation on the rock. And when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently against that house and it could not shake it, for it was founded on the rock." And of course, Jesus said to the woman at the well that he was offering her this artesian water And she said, "But the well is deep." And well, of course, that— Jacob's well was deep, but you also have to go deep if you want the living water. And going deeper into our relationship with the Lord in our prayers, in our study, you get more by going deeper. And we try to go a little deeper sometimes on this program, but if you'd like to know how you can have a deeper relationship with God in His Spirit, how do we do that? We've got a book and it's free. We'll send it to anyone who calls and asks. The book is called Life in the Spirit, and it's all about the Holy Spirit. That is our free offer today, and if you'd like to call for it, the number is 800-835-6747, and you can ask for offer number 155 or just call, ask for it by name, Life in the Spirit. Or there's another way you can get the book. Just simply dial #250 on your smartphone and say, Bible Answers Live, and then ask for the book Life in the Spirit. We'll be happy to send that to anyone who gives us a call or gets in touch with us. If you're outside of North America, outside of the US and Canada, you can access this by just going to our website, just amazingfacts.org. You'll be able to read the book for free there. You know, Pastor Doug, we want to greet all of those who are joining us. I know we have people who are watching on AFTV and of course listening on the radio across the country, but we also have others who are participating in this program online outside of the US, folks all around the world in Europe and down in Australia. And likewise, we want to welcome all of you to this special in-depth Bible study where we try to go a little deeper in the Word. Amen. And so, yeah, we're also streaming on, as you mentioned, Facebook. It's the Amazing Facts Facebook page, the Doug Batchelor Facebook page. And you could text your friends right now and say Bible Answers Live is live. So call in with your questions. We're on TV, we're on radio, and And we're going to go before the Lord and then go on to the phones. Let's start with a word of prayer. Dear Father, we thank you once again that we have this opportunity to open up your word and study, Lord. We know there's power in the word. Jesus said, "You shall know the truth and the truth will set you free." So we pray, Lord, that our minds will be clear to receive the word of truth. So bless those who are listening and those who call in. We pray for guidance, Lord, as we search here in the studio the scriptures. We ask this in Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Well, we're ready to go to our first caller this evening. We've got a caller from London, England. Dawn, welcome to the program. You are on the air. Good morning, uh, Pastor Doug and Pastor John Ross. Um, my question is, um, God commands us to worship on the seventh-day Sabbath. With all the calendar and timeline changes over the years, how do we know with great certainty that the the Saturday that we observe today is still the Sabbath? You know, when I get that question, I always am tempted to say to those that worship on the first day of the week, how do you know that's the day that it is? People usually have no trouble remembering what the days of the week are until they learn the Sabbath truth and say, well, we really don't know. But first of all, you can just look at, there's a whole nation of Jews all over the world, and they have been keeping the seventh-day Sabbath in continuity from long before the Christian era. Somebody wrote a letter, Pastor Ross, to the U.S. Naval Observatory where they're, you know, they're very particular about keeping time down to the millionth of a second. And I'm not exaggerating, they really do keep it to a millionth of a second. And they said, has there been any change in the calendar that has affected the days of the week? And they said, there have been, you know, several changes in the calendar, but that never affects the days of the week. You know, we had the Julian calendar, named for Julius Caesar, and then we went to the Gregorian calendar, named after Pope Gregory. And it was a change they needed to make to adjust the seasons, where, because, you know, we've got 365 1/4 days to the year, and they needed to make that adjustment. So they made the appropriate adjustment, And what happened was, I think it was 1582, Thursday, 1582, October 5th was followed by Friday, October 15th. They added 10 days, but Friday followed Thursday as it always does. So the days of the week have not been affected by any calendar change. And so yeah, the US Naval Observatory said there has been no change in the calendar to their knowledge that has ever affected the continuity of the weekly cycle. You know, Pastor Doug, you already addressed the Jewish nation as a whole. If you think back 2,000 years ago, Jesus on the earth, he knew which day was the Sabbath. He kept the Sabbath the same day that the Jews kept as the Sabbath. And then for 2,000 years, for an entire nation to get mixed up within the period of 7 days as to which day of the week they're on is impossible. Yeah, it's their holy day. And then furthermore, in the Bible it tells us very specifically Jesus died on what we would call the preparation day or Friday, the 6th day of the week. That's why many call it Good Friday. And then he rested in the tomb on the Sabbath. He even kept the Sabbath in his death. And then he rose the first day of the week, which people all agree is Sunday morning. So the Bible's clear, calendar's clear, history's clear. You've got the, you know, the Jewish nation. There's really no question about that. You know, we have a study guide, it's called The Last Day of History, that talks about the Sabbath. Is it binding on Christians today? What is its significance? We'll be happy to send it to anyone who calls and asks. Again, the study guide is called The Last Day of History, and the phone number to call is 800-835-6747, or dial #250 on your phone. Ask for the study guide, it's called The Last Day of History. We've got Jerry listening in Texas. Jerry, welcome to the program. Hey, pastors, I just wanted to get your take on this. I had a discussion with a good friend of mine, and, uh, I told her that there was no marriage in heaven, and she was disappointed by, you know, she loves children. Of course, in Zechariah 8:5, it says the children, the boys and girls, will play in heaven. But what about after 1,000 years or 1,500 years? That's a good question. Well, you know, God told Adam and Eve to be fruitful, and the word he uses is to fill the earth. I think some versions say replenish. It really means to fill the earth. God intended to populate the world with the redeemed. I don't think God intended for people to continue to multiply so that the resources of the planet would be crowded out and everybody be falling off the planet into empty space. You know, at some point God was going to think, okay, we've got the optimum number of people to enjoy this paradise I've made, and there'd be no more procreation unless he kept making new worlds. So we understand now that the new earth through the plan of salvation will be repopulated with the redeemed. And Jesus said, "The saved do not marry, nor are they given in marriage," meaning that, you know, we don't procreate. Will there be children in heaven? The children of all those who are saved will be resurrected or caught up into the air as children, but they will eventually grow up. And you read about that in Malachi chapter 4. It says, "They will go forth and grow up." as calves of the stall. So, and I think there's that passage in Isaiah, Pastor Ross, where it says, "And the child will die 100 years old." And that simply means they don't even cease to be a child until they're 100 years old. So they grow more slowly. But you're right, after 1,000 years, you probably won't see any new children in the kingdom. It's kind of sad to think about, but I promise nobody's going to ask for a refund. I promise. Everyone will be happy in heaven. Thanks so much, Jerry. Appreciate that. Holding on for line, we got Bradley listening in Arizona. Bradley, welcome to the program. Hey, how are you guys doing tonight? I'm glad you took my call. And my question is, I've been doing some studying and I've heard some pastors on some other satellite stations that, uh, made it sound like Jesus would have come the second time already. If we would have, as his people, had our act together and gotten the good word out. And I'm wondering if there's any Scripture that backs that up. Yeah, actually, I think there is. I think you'll agree, Bradley, that the children of Israel— God wanted to bring them into the Promised Land sooner than he did, but because of their lack of faith, they wandered for 40 years. You know, Jesus says in Matthew 24:14, he said, "The gospel of the kingdom will go into all the world." I think if Christians had been more inspired and diligent to share their faith and get the gospel out, he would've come. And there's a verse, if you look, and this is one of several I could probably show you, if you look in 2 Peter 3:12, it says, "Looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements will melt with fervent heat. And he says that we should be looking for and hastening. So how do we hasten? Well, he said everyone needs to hear the gospel, even though they may not all believe. It goes out as a witness to all nations. So I think, and there's a lot of other verses I think that imply that, I mean, God knows, he knows everything. He knows when he's gonna come. He knew the children of Israel were going to wander longer than they needed to. So it's not like God's being surprised, but as far as our responsibility, things could have happened sooner if we had been more diligent. We've got Grace listening in California. Grace, welcome to the program. Hi, Pastor Doug and Pastor Rose. Good evening. Good evening. My question is that, is it good for a Christian to take a student loan? Well, the principle in the Bible, as far as possible, we should avoid debt. You've got examples where it says, you know, the borrower is servant to the lender. There's a story in the Bible in 2 Kings chapter 4 where this wife, she was married to one of the sons of the prophets. Her husband takes out a loan for some land or something, and he dies leaving the family in debt. And the children are about to be sold off, and she's terribly anxious and suffering because of this debt. So, but maybe he had no choice. Some people will never get through school or buy a home unless they take out loans, but you don't want to borrow more than you can really handle. I think we saw a few years ago this terrible home loan crisis in North America. The banks were giving away loans to people that really weren't qualified. And then when the market imploded, thousands, millions of people lost their homes because they took on too much debt. And it was very tragic. So, you know, sometimes the only way that you're going to get through school or get a home is to take on a responsible debt. Just make sure you don't get in over your head or what you can reasonably pay. And so you need to pray about that, but it's not a sin. You know, Pastor Doug, we also have a book written about what the Bible has to say about debt, and we actually advertise that book during our break program here. And we'll be happy to send that to— yeah, we're happy to send it to anyone who calls and asks. The number is 800-835-6747. And the book again, Pastor Doug, I'm looking for it here. Freedom from Debt. Freedom from Debt. It may not be in our list here. It's a newer book. We'll be happy to send it to anyone who calls in Canada and the US. Just ask for the book by name. Freedom from Debt. Also, you could get the book by pressing #250 on your smartphone, say Bible Answers Live, and ask for the book. Next caller that we have is Dennis, listening in Oregon. Dennis, welcome to the program. Hello, pastors. Good evening. Yeah, my question is, um, go back to the beginning here. Genesis 1, uh, verse 28 talks about go forth and multiply. Well, my understanding is Adam and Eve only had 3 sons. I wonder how this is supposed to be possible. Well, you have to go to chapter 5. You got your Bible in front of you? Yes, I do. Okay, go to chapter 5, and it tells about the first 3 sons, but there were many others. You look in verse 4, and it says, after he begat Seth, the days of Adam were 800 years, and he had sons and daughters. So Adam and Eve living all those years, and I'm sure they were fertile for many years. God told them, "Be fruitful and multiply." And she may have had several sets of twins. I heard, I think the record is one woman had 69 children. That's the record as far as I know. It's been years ago, but I think on Mother's Day years ago I did that. One woman had 69 children. Several sets of twins. I think once or two sets of triplets. And Eve was probably perfectly fertile, and they had lots of children. It says they had sons and daughters. So it just mentions the first three, 'cause they were the oldest boys and they sort of played into the story. All right, very good, thank you. Next caller that we have, let's see, Ruth from Missouri. Ruth, welcome to the program. Hi, good evening, pastors. Yeah. According to Revelation 1:7, There is a special resurrection for the wicked. Is there a special resurrection of the righteous, and will it be at the same time as the special resurrection of the wicked? Well, there have been some righteous that have already been specially resurrected. Of course, the Lord performed a special resurrection for Moses. Moses was buried, and it says that He evidently is in heaven. He appears in Mark chapter 9 with Elijah. We know Elijah wasn't raised, he was translated, as was Enoch. And then at the death of Christ in Matthew 27, it says many graves were opened following the earthquake when Jesus died. And those people came out of the grave, many of the saved around Jerusalem. They appeared to people in the city and they ascended to heaven when Jesus ascended. So that was a special resurrection for the righteous. The rest of the righteous rise when the Lord comes. I don't believe there's any special resurrection prior to the second coming. Some may get out of their graves a little bit prior so they can see him coming, but it's basically the day of his coming. Mm-hmm. So, and then there's a special resurrection for the wicked who were involved in condemning and torturing and persecuting Jesus around the scenes of the cross. That's what you referred to there in Revelation 1:7. So yeah, good question. But the general resurrection, the dead in the Christ rise first, 1,000 years later, all the rest of the dead, the wicked, are raised. All right, next caller that we have, I believe, is Gazelle from Michigan. Thank you for taking my call. I'm a little sick, so I hope I'm clear, but I have a question regarding the Sabbath. So is the fourth commandment in Exodus chapter 20 regarding a literal 7-day week, or is the Sabbath to be kept as a lunar Sabbath, like on a lunar cycle, like it would— like it described in, um, like Leviticus 23? Yes. Okay, a good question. And there's, you know, there's some Sabbatarians out there that are convinced that the Sabbath is just to be governed by the moon But historically, the Sabbath, it began at creation on the 7th day of the week, and there's a 7-day cycle that's totally independent from the lunar cycle. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, the days of the week we still follow now today. It's interesting that the whole world follows a 7-day week, and there's nothing in astronomy that would give us that. You know, the reason the world has a moon was about 30 days, or a month with about 30 days, is because of the moon. And we all have a year with 365 days because of the Earth's orbit around the sun, and a day with 24 hours because it rotates in that time on its axis. There's nothing in the sun, moon, or stars that gives us a 7-day week. That purely comes from creation. And the 7th-day Sabbath is governed by just the weekly cycle of a sequence of 7 days. And you've got the Jewish nation that's kept it that way for 3,000 years. All right, we've got Gerald listening in Montana. Gerald, welcome to the program. Good evening, Pastor. Evening. I got a question. You know, the Bible says we can eat the clean meats, and you get into, I think it's the 14th chapter of Samuel, and it calls— said that eating the blood is a sin. Yes. My question is this: if we consider the clean meats today, most of it— I myself, I grew up in a logging camp for years, and the blood's still in the meat, right? How do we reconcile the two thoughts? Well, you know, I can't account for what people may do. All I can do is tell you what the Bible says. And the Bible says all the way from the beginning— this is not a Jewish law. God even gave to Noah. And everyone listening, if you didn't know this, we are all brothers and sisters because we are all related to Noah. And he said we're not to eat blood. It's not only in the Old Testament. If you look in Acts chapter 15, it says they were not— even the Gentiles— not to eat blood. And God clearly told people that even when they ate the clean animals, they were to butcher them. So they typically cut the throat, and they would drain the blood out. Now, that doesn't mean there would be no blood cells left in the body, because it's, you know, hard to do that. But they were to principally drain out the blood. Most of the meat you buy, clean meats you buy in the market, when they're butchered, they drain the blood out. I don't know what happened in your logging camp. And I know some people eat blood sausage where they don't drain the blood out because they want it juicy. But yeah, disease can be transferred from animal to animal. And some animals have disease in their blood, and by consuming that, we can actually pick up disease from animals. And God knew what he was saying. He not only said that, he said, "Don't eat the fat." So, you know, I remember as a kid, I ate a lot of steak, and I liked to— when people were done, I'd say, "Can I have your fat?" I mean, it kind of grosses me out to even think about it now, but— 'cause that's where all the toxins are stored. And God said you shouldn't eat that. Now people are pretty wise, they understand cholesterol, and they say, you know, God knew what he was talking about. We shouldn't be eating animal fat. That's almost pure cholesterol. Anyway, I hope that helps a little bit, but yeah, try it. You can buy meat that doesn't have the blood in it. Clean meats, I mean. You know, we have a study guide. It's called God's Free Health Plan. Talks about what the Bible says about food and clean and unclean meats. The number to call for that is 800-835-6747. And again, just ask for the study guide. It's called God's Free Health Plan. You can also dial #250, say Bible Answers Live, and say, I'd like the study guide called God's Free Health Plan, and we'll send it to you. We've got Bob listening in Washington. Bob, welcome to the program. Hey, brother, thank you very much. Thanks for calling. My question is, how should a Christian think about UFOs and these things people see in the sky? Could there be a connection between those, uh, UFOs and Satan? Could be. I've got a good friend, he's passed away now, named Joe Maniscalco, who actually wrote a book, an illustrated book, and he thought a lot of the UFO sightings were satanic to get people distracted from God and angels, and they're sort of creating a different worldview. By this. And I don't know that. I know that as a pilot, I've seen a few UFOs. Now, UFO, keep in mind, just means an unidentified flying object. And my wife and I tracked down a UFO once, and we found out that it was a large metallic red balloon. I said, "Dear, what is that?" "It's a UFO." We flew towards it, which probably isn't wise if you think it's an alien. And we felt so silly. We got over there, and it was just one of these balloons. Someone had let a big balloon go from a party, and it was just hovering in space. Our government shot down a balloon not long ago. One was dangerous and one was not. So a lot of the UFOs, I'd say 99% of the UFOs that you hear about, if they're not manufactured in people's imaginations, I think a lot of them can be explained with astronomy or with just reflections of light. I've seen some strange things out there flying. I've seen clouds and the sun hit them and there was one little cloud all by itself and I thought for sure It was a UFO. One quick story of one of my UFO stories, real quick. I lived on a sailboat in the Mediterranean. I was on night watch with 3 friends, 2 friends, 3 of us. And one night we saw, we looked out while we're keeping watch, we saw a UFO coming towards us. This, this UFO was shining in the night sky and it was coming towards our boat. And I called them over, they looked at it, we wondered whether we should go wake up the captain. And pretty soon we realized it was the sun rising. And just the way that it was coming up, it looked like a flying saucer. There's a little spot in the clouds, but it looked like it kept getting bigger and bigger. We thought it was coming. So yeah, I feel really stupid now, but you've probably all got a laugh anyway. So, uh, yeah, I, you know, there's some things the devil could create illusions. Uh, it's hard to know which are which, right? Absolutely. Okay, next one that we have, Valerie in California. Valerie, welcome to the program. Hi, how are you, pastors? Doing good, thank you for calling. Thank you for taking my call. My question is, Pastor Doug, I've heard you preach before regarding Jesus turning water to wine. And then as I was doing my daily devotional on Numbers, in the book of Numbers chapter 6, and I'm focusing on verse 3 because I've never really read the word grape juice in the Bible before. And here on this scripture, um, 3, it talks about wine and other fermented drinks, and it also mentions grape juice. So my question is, why wouldn't the word grape juice be in the other verse where he turns water into wine? Because that's like one of the biggest conversations I have with people who still drink. They say, well, Jesus turned water to wine. So I was really surprised when I read that grape juice word. Can I ask you, what version of the Bible are you reading? I've read it in the New King James Version because that's my main Bible, and also I see the word grape juice in the NIV. I think you'll find, though, if you look at the original word in both the King James, New King James, the Old Testament word there is the word wine. The King James translators realized that it has definitely got to be grape juice because it's anything from the grape at any stage. And so it says you're not even supposed to eat a raisin. The Nazarite was not supposed to eat anything from the vine. And so they put the word grape juice in there, but it's not in the original. It's the same word that you're going to find used for wine. And in the New Testament, there's only one word for wine. I don't think you find the word grape juice. It's oinos, oinos, I think, if I'm pronouncing that right. So yeah, there's not a distinction made in the original languages. Some translators And they did the right thing. When they know it's grape juice, they put grape juice. But I think if you get— is it Isaiah where it says, as the new wine is in the cluster? Yeah, I remember that scripture too. Yeah, well, clearly if it's still in the cluster, it's not fermented yet. But it uses the same word wine. So that's why Jesus, when he said you don't put new wine— new wine is grape juice— in old wineskins, but it still uses the same word for both. So, hey, you know, I've got a book on alcohol. We'll send you a free copy, and it's called The Christian and Alcohol. The number to call for that is 800-835-6747. You can ask for the book. It's called Alcohol and the Christian. We'll be happy to send it to anyone in Canada or the US, or you can just dial #250 and say Bible Answers Live and ask for the book, the Alco— or Alcohol and the Christian. We'll be happy to send it out to anyone who calls and asks. Hey friends, that's all we have time for now. We thank you so much for your Bible questions. We look forward to hearing from you again next week. God bless. Send us your questions and go to amazingfacts.org to learn more about the ministry. Thank you for listening to today's broadcast. We hope you understand your Bible even better than before. Bible Answers Live is produced by Amazing Facts International, a faith-based ministry located in Granite Bay, California.